docs: introduce docs for clustering (#4344)
grafana/agent: docs/sources/flow/getting-started/distribute-prometheus-scrape-load.md

---
title: Distribute Prometheus metrics scrape load
weight: 500
---

# Distribute Prometheus metrics scrape load

A good predictor for the size of an agent deployment is the number of
Prometheus targets each agent scrapes. [Clustering][] with target
auto-distribution allows a fleet of agents to work together to dynamically
distribute their scrape load, providing high-availability.

{{% admonition type="note" %}}
Clustering is a [beta][] feature. Beta features are subject to breaking
changes, and may be replaced with equivalent functionality that cover the same
use case.
{{%/admonition %}}

[beta]: {{< relref "../../stability.md#beta" >}}
[Clustering]: {{< relref "../concepts/clustering.md" >}}

## Before you begin

> - Familiarize yourself with how to [configure existing installs][].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Familiarize yourself with how to [configure existing Agent installations][].
```

- [Configure Prometheus metrics collection][].
- [Configure clustering][] of agents.
- Ensure that all of your clustered agents have the same config file.

> [configure existing installs]: {{< relref "../setup/configure" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[configure existing agent installations]: {{< relref "../setup/configure" >}}
```
